sections/features.mdx, before:

import { Notes } from 'mdx-deck';

# New Features in PHP

<Notes>
	If you have been focused on PHP5.2, lots of stuff is available when you upgrade
</Notes>

---

# Namespaces

<Notes>
	5.3
</Notes>

---

# Closures

<Notes>
	5.3
	Need to be careful to not overuse them
</Notes>

---

# Traits

<Notes>
	5.4
</Notes>

---

# Type Declarations 

```php
function getDataStructure( int $page ): ?WP_Post {
	...
}
```

<Notes>
	Started in 5.0, callable added in 5.4, a bunch added in 7.0, further improved in 7.1 and 7.2
	Return type declerations added in 7.0
	Intent is clearer
	Improved Performance
	? signifies that null can be returned
</Notes>

---

# Generators

```php
function count_a_lot( $num ) {
    for ( $i = 1; $i < $num; $i++ ) {
        yield $i;
    }
}

foreach ( count_a_lot( PHP_INT_MAX ) as $num ) {
	echo "Counting to " . $num . PHP_EOL;
}
```

<Notes>
	5.5
	Loop through data without building an array in memory
	Creates an iterator object and tracks current state internally
	Significant performance boost when working with large arrays
	Allows for multitasking and concurrency
</Notes>

---

# Syntactical Sugar & Other Happy Things

<Notes>
	Some pieces don't change the way you write code, they just make it a bit nicer 
</Notes>

---

# Short Array Syntax

```php
$var = [ 'a', 'b', 'c' ];
```

<Notes>
	5.4
</Notes>

---

# Null Coalescing Operator

```php
$name = $user->user_nicename ?? "Friend";
echo "Howdy " . $name;
```

<Notes>
	7.0
	Syntactical Sugar to make isset ternary shorter
</Notes>

---

# intdiv

```php
$x = 10;
$y = 3;
intdiv( $x, $y ); // 3
( $x - ( $x % $y ) ) / $y; // 3 
```

<Notes>
	Returns the integer 
	Helpful for something like pagination
</Notes>


---

# Negative String Offsets

```php
echo '#wpheartstswift'[-3]; // i;
```

<Notes>
	7.1
</Notes>

---

# Abstract Method Overriding

<Notes>
	Abtract classes can overide methods when extending each other
	7.2
</Notes>

---

# Trailing Commas in Calls

```php
lets_pretend_this_is_a_very_long_function_(
	$a,
	$b,
	$c,
);
```

---

# Splat Operator

```php
function do( $foo, ...$args ) {
	foreach ( $args as $arg ) {
		...
	}
}
```

<Notes>
	5.6
	Allows you to capture a variable number of arguments to a function
	Used to require using func_get_args()
	Can be combined with "normal" arguments
	2+ arguments passed to splat operator can be accessed via array
</Notes>

---

# Spaceship Operator

```php
echo 1 <=> 1; // 0
echo 1 <=> 2; // -1
echo 2 <=> 1; // 1
```

<Notes>
	7.0
	Used for comparing two expressions
	Returns -1, 0 or 1 according to whether $b is less than, equal to, or greater than $a
</Notes>

---

# Array Constants

```php
define( 'ALBUMS', [
	'Fearless'   => 2009,
	'Red' 	     => 2012,
	'1989'       => 2015,
	'Reputation' => 2017
] );
```

<Notes>
	Constants defined with the define() method could only accept scalar values previously
	Now you can have constant arrays using the define() method
</Notes>

---

# Exception Handling

```php
try {
    $obj = 'foo';
    $obj->method();
} catch( Error $e ) {
    var_dump( $e );
}
```

<Notes>
	7.0 - Exception handling
	A special exception is thrown upon E_ERROR and E_RECOVERABLE_ERROR
	These can be handled rather than halting the execution
	7.1 - Multiple exceptions catching
	A single catch statement can be used to handle multiple exceptions
</Notes>

Commit message:

Updates to notes
Adding periods and clarifying some wording in the notes.

sections/features.mdx, after:

import { Notes } from 'mdx-deck';

# New Features in PHP

<Notes>
	If you have been focused on PHP5.2, lots of stuff is available when you upgrade
</Notes>

---

# Namespaces

<Notes>
	5.3
</Notes>

---

# Closures

<Notes>
	5.3
	Need to be careful to not overuse them
</Notes>

---

# Traits

<Notes>
	5.4
</Notes>

---

# Type Declarations 

```php
function getDataStructure( int $page ): ?WP_Post {
	...
}
```

<Notes>
	Started in 5.0, callable added in 5.4, a bunch added in 7.0, further improved in 7.1 and 7.2
	Return type declerations added in 7.0
	Intent is clearer
	Improved Performance
	? signifies that null can be returned
</Notes>

---

# Generators

```php
function count_a_lot( $num ) {
    for ( $i = 1; $i < $num; $i++ ) {
        yield $i;
    }
}

foreach ( count_a_lot( PHP_INT_MAX ) as $num ) {
	echo "Counting to " . $num . PHP_EOL;
}
```

<Notes>
	Introduced in 5.5.
	Loop through data without building an array in memory.
	Creates an iterator object and tracks current state internally.
	Significant performance boost when working with large arrays.
	Allows for multitasking and concurrency.
</Notes>

---

# Syntactical Sugar & Other Happy Things

<Notes>
	Some pieces don't change the way you write code, they just make it a bit nicer 
</Notes>

---

# Short Array Syntax

```php
$var = [ 'a', 'b', 'c' ];
```

<Notes>
	5.4
</Notes>

---

# Null Coalescing Operator

```php
$name = $user->user_nicename ?? "Friend";
echo "Howdy " . $name;
```

<Notes>
	7.0
	Syntactical Sugar to make isset ternary shorter
</Notes>

---

# intdiv

```php
$x = 10;
$y = 3;
intdiv( $x, $y ); // 3
( $x - ( $x % $y ) ) / $y; // 3 
```

<Notes>
	Returns the integer 
	Helpful for something like pagination
</Notes>


---

# Negative String Offsets

```php
echo '#wpheartstswift'[-3]; // i;
```

<Notes>
	7.1
</Notes>

---

# Abstract Method Overriding

<Notes>
	Abtract classes can overide methods when extending each other
	7.2
</Notes>

---

# Trailing Commas in Calls

```php
lets_pretend_this_is_a_very_long_function_(
	$a,
	$b,
	$c,
);
```

---

# Splat Operator

```php
function do( $foo, ...$args ) {
	foreach ( $args as $arg ) {
		...
	}
}
```

<Notes>
	Introduced in 5.6.
	Allows you to capture a variable number of arguments to a function.
	Used to require using func_get_args().
	Can be combined with "normal" arguments.
	2+ arguments passed to splat operator can be accessed via array.
</Notes>

---

# Spaceship Operator

```php
echo 1 <=> 1; // 0
echo 1 <=> 2; // -1
echo 2 <=> 1; // 1
```

<Notes>
	Introduced in 7.0.
	Used for comparing two expressions.
	Returns -1, 0 or 1 according to whether $b is less than, equal to, or greater than $a.
</Notes>

---

# Array Constants

```php
define( 'ALBUMS', [
	'Fearless'   => 2009,
	'Red' 	     => 2012,
	'1989'       => 2015,
	'Reputation' => 2017
] );
```

<Notes>
	Constants defined with the define() method could only accept scalar values previously.
	Now you can set array constants using the define() method.
</Notes>

---

# Exception Handling

```php
try {
    $obj = 'foo';
    $obj->method();
} catch( Error $e ) {
    var_dump( $e );
}
```

<Notes>
	Introduced updates to exception handling in 7.0.
	A special exception is thrown upon E_ERROR and E_RECOVERABLE_ERROR.
	These can be handled rather than halting the execution.
	Added multiple exceptions catching in 7.1.
	A single catch statement can be used to handle multiple exceptions.
</Notes>
